Despite increasing
calls for a cease fire in Gaza,
remains defiant
against those calls until Hamas
releases all hostages.
U.S.
Secretary of State
Antony Blinken echoed
the rejection, saying
it would only give Hamas more ti
to regroup and attack Israel aga
But he did reiterate today
on a surprise visit
in Baghdad
that he is still pursuing
a humanitarian pause.
Blinken,
that is the queen of
Jordan, says a stance against a
fire is ill advised
and will not bring peace to the
CNN's
Becky Anderson is in Doha,
Qatar, and spoke with Queen Rani
earlier today.
Fred, we've seen consistent
and united calls
for a cease fire
across this region,
including from Jordan's Queen Ra
Israelis flatly rejected those c
And when Arab leaders met
with Antony Blinken in Amman on
the US secretary of state reaffi
the U.S.
position
that a ceasefire
will only enable Hamas
to commit more attacks
like the one on October the seve
Well, Queen
Rania said
that position was short sighted
if you manage to eliminate all o
What next?
The root cause of this conflict
is an illegal occupation.
It is routine human rights abuse
illegal settlements, a disregard
resolutions and international la
If we do not address these root
then you can kill the combatants
but you cannot kill the cause.
She went on to say that
the death of civilians
will only further
the cause of Hamas
and not bring peace to Israel.
But Israel has insisted
that it is doing its best
to protect
civilians and blames Hamas
for using them as human shields.
Queen Rania cited
how Israel has used
its evacuation orders on
why she doesn't think that those
stand up. Have a listen.
Never mind that the evacuation o
or sent on on online or or on te
knowing that there is no electri
in Gaza for those
since the beginning of this war,
these evacuation orders,
I do not believe
are for the benefit
of the Gaza civilians.
They are not the target audience
The rest of the world is.
It is Israel's
attempt to try to legitimize
their actions.
And when it comes to human shiel
I think we need to defer
to international law.
Of course,
the use of human shields is crim
even if one side use
it puts a civilian in harm's way
that civilian is still entitled
to full protection
under international humanitarian
That is the global standard.
And no nation is exempt
in a place like Jabalya,
which is one of the most crowded
corners of Gaza.
Gaza being one of the most dense
populated spots on Earth.
Civilian death is not incidental
It is not accidental.
It is a foregone conclusion.
And that makes it a war crime.
Jabalya is the refugee camp
in Gaza where civilians
have been sheltering in U.N.
schools.
It's been hit on
multiple occasions,
including this weekend.
And at the end of the conversati
Queen
Rania had a really
poignant message
for those standing behind Israel
She said that
if you are an ally to Israel,
you need to give them
the uncomfortable truth,
that they
have crossed the line
that is, Queen Rania is position
And it really speaks to the frus
that you hear
across this part of the world,
the Arab world
that we have been reporting on n
for weeks Fred.
Becky Anderson,
thank you so much, in Doha.